[music]
>> This is Mr. Zhang.
He asked us not to film his face for
privacy reasons.
A little over 8 years ago, an accident
left him paralyzed from the neck down.
But here, he's controlling his
wheelchair with his mind.
>> [music]
>> He's even got a few tricks up his
sleeve.
Last year, Mr. Zhang had surgery to get
a brain computer interface, or BCI,
[music] from a Shanghai-based startup
called NeuroXess.
>> [music]
>> Zhang's training is part of a new wave
of clinical trials in China hoping to
make the next breakthrough in BCI tech.
>> US companies [music]
certainly had a head start in developing
these systems and testing these systems
in humans, but China is certainly
catching up very rapidly.
>> The race to get BCIs to market is on,
and the stakes for one well-known tech
CEO are high.
Like saving humanity from the
robocalypse high.
>> Ultimately, I think this helps mitigate
the civilizational risk of artificial
intelligence.
>> AI doom scenario aside, there's a chance
BCIs could move beyond just medical
[music] purposes and further enmesh
humans and technology.
But first, they've got to get to market.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Tiny electrodes are carefully cemented
to the scalp To detect and record the
delicate pulses from the human brain.
>> [music]
>> There's been a lot of buzz around
brain-computer interfaces in the past
few years.
But the technology behind them isn't all
that new.
>> So a brain-computer interface is a piece
of technology that allows your brain to
communicate [music] directly with a
computer or another sort of piece of
electronic equipment bypassing the rest
of the body.
>> The term brain-computer interface was
coined in the 1970s by an American
scientist who showed that one could take
>> [music]
>> electrical signals measured by an EEG
and map it onto patterns and then decode
[music] how that correspond to movement.
>> It wasn't until sort of the early 2000s
that we got into humans using these
[music] chips to read the activity in
human brains.
>> Over the past few years, it's really
entered mainstream consciousness thanks
[music] in no small part to the
enthusiasm of tech billionaires.
But we're at [music] a point where
companies are moving fast in clinical
trials and really working towards
bringing a [music] product to commercial
use.
>> [music]
>> BCIs work like this. Everything you do,
whether that's speak, eat, or move your
hand is driven by neurons in your brain.
These neurons send electrical signals to
each other to create action. BCIs read
and decode those signals to control an
external device [music] like a tablet or
prosthetic limb.
BCIs come in varying degrees of
invasiveness. Some need to be surgically
implanted and either stick into the
brain or sit right on top of it. Others
are placed on top of the scalp.
>> [music]
>> Regardless of how you measure it, brain
data is noisy. That's where AI comes in.
BCI companies use algorithms to filter
out background chatter and accurately
identify the brain's instructions.
[music]
>> The vast rich amount of data that they
collect can be super helpful in [music]
helping scientists understand the human
brain better.
And a lot of researchers believe that
this [music] kind of data will help AI
researchers build totally different kind
of artificial intelligence systems.
>> In the US, it's estimated that BCI
companies have raised $2.75 billion
collectively.
>> Chinese and European companies have
raised maybe a fraction of that.
>> Even so, the Chinese sector is growing.
Funding for Chinese brain chip startups
more than doubled in 2025 compared to
the year before.
And in March of 2026, China approved its
first invasive BCI for commercial use. A
signal that it's betting big on this
tech.
>> [music]
>> My name's Tiger Tao, and actually Tiger
is a direct translation of my first name
"Hu" in Chinese. So, it has nothing to
do with my personality.
>> [music]
>> Over the past few years, NeuroXESS has
been experimenting with different
approaches to BCIs.
>> I was hoping that you would bring the
model over and demonstrate what it would
be.
So, this is the
product or the device we built for
especially for like a ALS patient or
high-level spinal cord injury person.
>> The device uses a strip of electrodes
that sits on top of the cortex that can
record signals in the brain. Those
electrodes are connected to a brain chip
that does all the signal processing.
That's attached to an internal control
unit that processes and wirelessly
transmits data to a computer.
It also houses the battery.
>> The last but not least, you have a
battery
And you have another wireless charger,
not just that like the one you're using
to charge your cell phone, to put right
on top of this chest, aligned to the
battery, and do the charging.
>> More than 50 patients have tested
different versions of NeuroXess'
technology.
But Mr. Zhang has lived with it the
longest, since October of 2025.
He spends several hours a day training
to learn new skills with his BCI.
[music]
>> It's also interesting that [music]
NeuroXess has a collaboration with
Xiaomi, one of the leading home
appliances [music] companies in China,
to integrate its BCI with a whole
universe of smart home devices.
>> Other startups have similar partnerships
with tech companies, so that patients
can start to control their devices with
their minds.
Mr. Zhang is also training to control a
robotic exoskeleton on his hand.
According to Tao, this sort of tech
could one day help Mr. Zhang walk again.
Mr. Zhang will have this implant for an
entire year, which is critical [music]
to test its long-term safety and
effectiveness.
After that, Mr. Zhang could remove or
keep the BCI, which NeuroXess [music]
claims could last 3 years.
>> In a sense, it can be a ticking time
bomb when something [music] is put in
the human brain, which is very sensitive
area of the body.
>> That's because over time the brain forms
scar tissue around the implant, which
can damage brain cells and block signals
to the device.
NeuroXess opted for a less invasive
strip of electrodes [music]
to help reduce scarring and maintain a
good signal.
One challenge, the bar for regulatory
approval is very high.
>> This is going to be classified as class
three medical device which is going to
be hardest getting comes of approval.
>> But they've got a helping hand.
Every five years, China's top officials
release an outline for key areas of
economic and social development. That
support can catapult nascent industries
to new heights. [music] For example,
China's highlighted new energy vehicles
for investment over the past few
decades, and today they dominate most of
the global EV market.
>> In the 15th five-year plan, BCI was
designated as one of six strategic
industries of the future.
>> That means clearer guidelines, faster
clinical trial reviews, and better
coordination. Oh, and a $165 million
brain science fund to back the fledgling
industry.
>> So while venture funding for these BCI
companies are relatively limited
compared to their US peers, this kind of
policy support really helps them
accelerate their development of BCI
technology.
>> It looks like it's going to take another
one and half year or two years to get
approval. NMPA, the equivalent agency to
FDA. So that's quite unusual.
>> The biggest test will be whether BCIs
can actually be a viable business, and
whether it can live up to all its hype,
all its promises when it's rolled out in
a commercial
real-world setting.
>> There is a big open question of how
these are going to be paid for.
>> [music]
>> What sort of insurance coverage will
look like, whether that will be
sufficient to to cover the costs.
>> BCIs are unsurprisingly expensive.
[music]
In July 2025, Bloomberg reported that
Neuralink estimates each surgery will
bring in $50,000.
Neuraace hasn't announced an estimate,
but they've already broken ground on a
manufacturing facility the company says
will make 10,000 devices a year.
>> I think then, you know, companies and
investors are going to have to see how,
um, you know, large they really need
this market to be. Will it be sufficient
to only use this as a medical device, or
will investors want more of a return and
want this technology to be available,
um, or marketed more more broadly?
>> Mass adoption of this tech, whether
invasive or non-invasive, raises
questions about the future of neural
privacy. [music]
>> As this technology becomes more widely
available, which, you know, many people
think it will, there are sort of
questions to be raised about who has
access to this data and what happens to
it.
>> In response to the rapid acceleration of
BCI tech, some jurisdictions are passing
laws to protect neural privacy. [music]
>> There are fears that ultimately BCI will
be used or abused to alter people's
consciousness against their wills, or
even be deployed in a military setting
to create soldiers with enhanced
cognitive abilities.
>> Those nightmare scenarios have some
basis in reality.
In the US, the CIA ran illegal
experiments to try to unlock mind
control during the Cold War.
And more recently, the US's primary
military research arm, DARPA, has funded
studies into BCIs that could allow for
hands-free control of drones.
China has also funded brain research for
military applications.
For now, BCI trials are helping people
with disabilities regain their
independence for everyday tasks.
But Mr. Zhang is thinking beyond [music]
that.
>> [music]
>> Sure that.